= Primer

This is an experiment to bring automatic cache expiry and regeneration to Rails.
At Songkick[http://www.songkick.com], we have a ton of code that deals with caches
and denormalization and messages and offline processing and it's hard to maintain.
I want to get rid of it. All of it.


== What?

Inspired by LunaScript[http://asana.com/luna] and Fun[http://marcuswest.in/read/fun-intro/],
I figured Ruby could figure out which values a computation uses, and use that to
expire caches for you without having to write any expiry code. This turns out to be
possible, at least for typical ActiveRecord usage, and Primer includes an engine
for that.

Primer currently lets you do the following:

* Mark up ERB templates with cache keys on Rails and Sinatra
* Monitor what attributes a cache value depends on
* Automatically expire a cache when its dependencies change
* Declare how caches should be recalculated for eager cache population
* Update pages in real time when their data is updated

It does all this without you having to write a single cache sweeper. You
just declare how to render your site, Primer does the rest.


== Enough waffle, show me the code!

The following is the minimal, 'hello world' use case. Get your ActiveRecord
model, put a mixn in it (<em>after</em> declaring the model's associations):

  class BlogPost < ActiveRecord::Base
    include Primer::Watcher
  end

Set up a cache for your app (you need Redis[http://code.google.com/p/redis/]):

  Primer.cache = Primer::Cache::Redis.new(:host => "10.0.1.1", :port => 6380)

Throw a helper in your views:

  # Rails
  module ApplicationHelper
    include Primer::Helpers::ERB
  end
  
  # Sinatra
  helpers { include Primer::Helpers::ERB }

Wrap cache blocks around your markup for expensive bits:

  # views/posts/show.html.erb
  
  <% primer "/posts/#{@post.id}/title" do %>
    <%= @post.title.upcase %>
  <% end %>

The output of the block gets cached to Redis using the given key. Once the
output is cached, the block will not be called again. The cache is invalidated
when (and only when) the title of <tt>@post</tt> changes; Primer figures this
out and you don't need to write any cache sweeping code.

Finally you need to bind the cache to the event bus, unless you want to run the
cache monitoring work in a background process (see below):

  Primer.cache.bind_to_bus
  
  # If you're using ActiveRecord
  Primer::Worker::ActiveRecordAgent.bind_to_bus


=== Declaring cache generators

You may have noticed that Primer forces the use of path-style keys for your
cache. Instead of wrapping code you want to memoize in a block, you can
declare how to calculate it elsewhere and use a router to map cache keys
to calculations. For example we could rewrite our post title example like
this:

  # views/posts/show.html.erb
  # note '=' sign here, not used with block form
  
  <%= primer "/posts/#{@post.id}/title" %>

Then you can declare how to calculate this in a router attached to your
cache object:

  Primer.cache.routes do
    get "/posts/:id/title" do
      post = BlogPost.find(params[:id])
      post.title.upcase
    end
  end

The advantage of this is that the cache now has a way to generate cache values
outside of your rendering stack, meaning that instead of just invalidating the
cache it can actually calculate the new value so the cache is always ready
for incoming requests.

It also means you can generate cache content offline; running the following
will generate the cache of the first post's title:

  Primer.cache.compute("/posts/1/title")


=== Throttling

Let's say you have a cache value that depends on many little bits of model
data, a common situation in web front-ends. For example:

  Primer.cache.routes do
    get "/posts/:id/summary" do
      post = BlogPost.find(params[:id])
      <<-HTML
        <div class="post-summary">
          <h2>#{ post.title }</h2>
          <ul class="post-meta">
            <li>Posted #{ post.strftime('%A %e %B %Y') } by #{ post.author.name }</li>
            <li>Tagged with #{ post.tags.map { |t| link_to(t.name, t) }.join(', ') }</li>
          </ul>
        </div>
      HTML
    end
  end

We've got a few domain objects in use here: the post itself, its author, the
tags attached to the post. We'd want this value regenerating whenever any of
this data changes, but what if many values that affect this template change at
around the same time? We might not want to regenerate it for every single change,
we just want to make sure it looks okay after all the changes have been applied.
Primer lets you throttle cache regeneration, for example this makes sure each
key is never regenerated twice within a 5-second interval:

  Primer.cache.throttle = 5

When a value affecting a key changes, Primer will wait 5 seconds before
regenerating it, allowing other data changes to accrue before we update the
cache.


=== Background workers

You'll probably want to move a lot of the work Primer does out of your front-end
process. Primer includes an AMQP message bus to support this, and setting it up
is easy - put this somewhere in your app's setup:

  Primer.bus = Primer::Bus::AMQP.new(:queue => 'my_app_events')

To make a background worker, you just need a file like this:

  # worker.rb
  
  # load your models, config, Primer routes etc
  require 'path/to/app/environment'
  
  Primer.worker!

Running <tt>ruby worker.rb</tt> will start a process in the shell that listens
for change notifications and updates the cache for you. You can start as many
of these as you like to spread the load out.


=== Real-time page updates

If you want to be properly web-scale, you'll need to be updating your pages
in real time as your data changes. Primer lets you update any fragment generated
by a block-less <tt>primer</tt> call in your view automatically.

All you need to do is place some middleware in your Rack config:

  # config.ru
  
  require 'path/to/sinatra/app'
  
  use Primer::RealTime
  run Sinatra::Application

Add the client-side script to your templates (this must be in the <tt>HEAD</tt>):

  <script type="text/javascript" src="/primer.js"></script>

Then configure it wherever your data model gets used to tell it you want to
use real-time updates and where the messaging server is. You should also set
a password - this will stop third parties being able to publish to the message
bus and inject arbitrary HTML into your pages.

  Primer.real_time = true
  Primer::RealTime.bayeux_server = 'http://localhost:9292'
  Primer::RealTime.password = 'super_secret_password'


=== SSI

Server-side includes (SSI) let you embed pages in each other using special HTML
comments. For example, instead of having my Ruby app render the value of the
key <tt>/posts/1/title</tt>, I could make it print:

  <!--# include virtual="/posts/1/title" -->

The front-end server can then deal with injecting the cached values into the
page, and will typically do a faster job of it than if your app composed the
page itself.

To use SSI, just set this flag in your application setup. Your app will then
print SSI tags instead of reading and rendering from the cache itself.

  Primer.ssi = true

I find that using Nginx with the Redis module works well for this. Here's a
server config to get up and running:

  upstream primer_backend {
    server 127.0.0.1:9292;
  }

  server {
    listen 80;
    server_name primer;
    ssi on;
    
    location / {
      default_type text/html;

      proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
      proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
      proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
      proxy_redirect off;

      set $redis_key $uri;
      redis_pass 127.0.0.1:6379;

      proxy_intercept_errors on;
      error_page 404 502 = /fallback$uri;
    }

    location /fallback/ {
      internal;

      proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
      proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
      proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
      proxy_redirect off;

      proxy_pass http://primer_backend/;
    }
  }


== Examples

See <tt>example/README.rdoc</tt>, a little Sinatra blog with a Redis cache,
offline cache workers and real-time page updates.


== Anything else?

I've tested it on Ruby 1.8.7 and 1.9.2 with Rails 3 and Sinatra 1.1. I've
briefly tried using it in Rails 2.2 and it looked okay-ish.

I'm NOT using this in production, and neither should you. Ideas and feedback
welcome, pull requests considered, bug reports likely to gather dust.


== License

Copyright (c) 2010 Songkick.com, James Coglan. Named by the inimitable
grillpanda[http://github.com/grillpanda]. Released under the MIT license.

